We chose to design our statechart using PlantUML and the online editor for it, PlantText, the latter of which automatically generated the visual diagram to represent the model under it. This approach allowed us to quickly through text define our statechart and get the diagram for it without needing to draw it ourselves. The PlantUML Language is simple and straightforward, which allowed us to focus on actually defining the defferent elements of a statechart correctly and in a manner fitting with our overall modelled applicaiton.  

For our application class diagram, we decided to use Modelio, which we also used earlier for the domain class model. It is an open-source UML tool and modeling environment software, supporting a wide range of models and diagrams. We chose to use Modelio because it is open-source and fully free, including its code generation capabilities. Modelio became open-source in 2011 and has received regular updates since, making it a solid feature-rich option today. It has all the features and diagram elements required for this first assignment and class diagram creation in general.

As mentioned earlier, Modelio does allow generation of code, specifically java code based on our model. When doing so, attributes, classes (including abstract ones) and generalizations are handled properly as would would writing the code ourselves. There are issues with the case of derived data (/cost = duration + travelDistance), there is no field, function or anything at all generated in code so it seems to be completely ignored. The code generated is as expected template style (empty methods), because specific logic isn't defined in a class model. This code would be helpful for setting up the skeleton of an application but no more than that.
